DOCSP-36991 Find (#23)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/fundamentals/crud/find.txt

MongoDB collection.

Find a Single Document
----------------------

The ``~pymongo.collection.Collection.find_one()`` method returns a
single document matching a query, or ``None`` if there are no
matches. Use this method when you know there is only one matching
document, or to see only the first document that matches a query. 

The following example uses the ``find_one()`` method to retrieve the first
document from the ``posts`` collection: 

.. code-block:: python

   >>> import pprint
   >>> pprint.pprint(posts.find_one())
   {'_id': ObjectId('...'),
    'author': 'Mike',
    'date': datetime.datetime(...),
    'tags': ['mongodb', 'python', 'pymongo'],
    'text': 'My first blog post!'}

The ``find_one()`` method also supports querying
with specific elements that the resulting document must match.

The following example retrieves a document with a value of "Mike" in the
``author`` field:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> pprint.pprint(posts.find_one({"author": "Mike"}))
   {'_id': ObjectId('...'),
    'author': 'Mike',
    'date': datetime.datetime(...),
    'tags': ['mongodb', 'python', 'pymongo'],
    'text': 'My first blog post!'}

> The ``find_one()`` method does not return a result if your search query doesn't
> find a matching document:

Reviewer: S: put negatives in separate clauses

```suggestion
If the search query doesn't find a matching document, the ``find_one()`` method returns nothing:
find a matching document:
```

.. code-block:: python

   >>> posts.find_one({"author": "Eliot"})
   >>>

.. _querying-by-objectid:

Querying By ObjectId
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also find a document by its ``_id``. 

The following example retrieves a document based on the ``_id``, which is an
``ObjectId``:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> post_id
   ObjectId(...)
   >>> pprint.pprint(posts.find_one({"_id": post_id}))
   {'_id': ObjectId('...'),
    'author': 'Mike',
    'date': datetime.datetime(...),
    'tags': ['mongodb', 'python', 'pymongo'],
    'text': 'My first blog post!'}

.. note::
  

>    An ``ObjectId`` is not the same as its string representation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   An ``ObjectId`` is not the same as its string representation.
```

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> post_id_as_str = str(post_id)
      >>> posts.find_one({"_id": post_id_as_str})  # No result
      >>>

A common task in web applications is to get an ``ObjectId`` from the
request URL and find the matching document. To do this, you must convert the
``ObjectId`` from a string before passing it to ``find_one()``:

.. code-block:: python

   from bson.objectid import ObjectId

   # The web framework gets post_id from the URL and passes it as a string
   def get(post_id):
       # Convert from string to ObjectId:
       document = client.db.collection.find_one({'_id': ObjectId(post_id)})

For more information about querying by ``ObjectId``, see :ref:`web-application-querying-by-objectid`.

Find Multiple Documents
-----------------------

To retrieve more than a single document as the result of a query, use the
the ``~pymongo.collection.Collection.find()`` method. The
``find()`` method returns a ``~pymongo.cursor.Cursor`` instance, which allows you to iterate
over all matching documents. 

> The following example, retrieves and iterates over every document in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example retrieves and iterates over every document in the
```
